files-you-should-know.txt
Created Wed Apr 18 09:05:03 AKDT 2018
Copyright (C) 2018 by Raymond E. Marcil <marcilr@gmail.com>


Files you should know


Log files - Log files are just that- a log of virtual server activity for a
single virtual server.  Log files should be used only when you are having
trouble with a virtual machine.

VMDK files - VMDK files are the actual virtual hard drive for the virtual
guest operation system (virtual machine / VM). You can create either dynamic
or fixed virtual disks.  With dynamic disks, the disks start small and grow as
 the disk inside the guest OS grows. With fixed disks, the virtual disk and
guest OS disk start out at the same (large) disk.  For more information on
monolithic vs. split disks see this comparison from sanbarrow.com.

VMEM - A VMEM file is a backup of the virtual machine's paging file.  It will
only appear if the virtual machine is running, or if it has crashed.

VMSN & VMSD files - these files are used for VMware snapshots. A VMSN file is
used to store the exact state of the virtual machine when the snapshot was
taken. Using this snapshot, you can then restore your machine to the same
state as when the snapshot was taken. A VMSD file stores information about
snapshots (metadata). You'll notice that the names of these files match the
names of the snapshots.

NVRAM files - these files are the BIOS for the virtual machine. The VM must
know how many hard drives it has and other common BIOS settings. The NVRAM
file is where that BIOS information is stored.

VMX files - a VMX file is the primary configuration file for a virtual
machine. When you create a new virtual machine and answer questions about the
operating system, disk sizes, and networking, those answers are stored in this
file. As you can see from the screenshot below, a VMX file is actually a
simple text file that can be edited with Notepad.
--communities.vmware.com/


Links
=====
Virtual Machine File Types
Posted by mjha in Alex_Hunt's Blog on Nov 9, 2014 5:58:44 AM
https://communities.vmware.com/blogs/vgeeks/2014/11/09/vmware-file-types
